.TH RESTITCH 1 "June 2025" "v0.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
restitch \- backup, restore, and revert Linux config files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restitch
[\fB--config-path\fR \fI<path>\fR]
.br
.B restitch
\fB--restore\fR [\fB--archive\fR \fI<path>\fR] [\fB--manifest\fR \fI<path>\fR] [\fB--dry-run\fR]
.br
.B restitch
\fB--revert\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Restitch is a configuration snapshot utility for Linux and macOS written in Rust.

It allows users to:
.TP
\- Select and archive dotfiles using an interactive terminal UI.
.TP
\- Restore configuration files from a compressed archive, with optional dry-run preview.
.TP
\- Revert system configs to a previously backed-up state using timestamped snapshots.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--config-path\fR \fI<path>\fR
Use a custom TOML file to define which configuration files or directories to include during export (default: \fBconfig_targets.toml\fR).
.TP
\fB--restore\fR
Restore configuration files from an archive and manifest file. Backups of existing files will be saved to the \fB./backups/\fR directory.
.TP
\fB--archive\fR \fI<path>\fR
Specify a custom archive file to restore from (default: \fBoutputs/restitch-archive.tar.gz\fR).
.TP
\fB--manifest\fR \fI<path>\fR
Specify a custom manifest TOML file that describes the archive contents (default: \fBoutputs/restitch-archive.manifest.toml\fR).
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview the effects of the \fB--restore\fR operation without making any filesystem changes.
.TP
\fB--revert\fR
Restore configuration files from the latest automatic backup in the \fB./backups/\fR directory.
.TP
\fB--help\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fBconfig_targets.toml\fR
TOML file defining configuration paths to export during backup.
.TP
\fBoutputs/restitch-archive.tar.gz\fR
Compressed archive containing selected configuration files.
.TP
\fBoutputs/restitch-archive.manifest.toml\fR
Manifest file listing archived paths and metadata.
.TP
\fBbackups/YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM-SS/\fR
Directories containing automatic pre-restore backups.

.SH AUTHOR
Jake Turner

.SH SEE ALSO
tar(1), gzip(1), toml(5)
